Chapter 1 :

Bai: GRU is used after the Resnet
	for catching temporal relationship of acoustic features.

	m log-Mel spectrogram as acoustic features, and
	the GCC-PHAT as the spatial feature input to network

	From another point of view, sound recognition is an image
	recognition process. Therefore, many network architectures used
	for machine vision can be used for reference (ResNet), and sound is a signal
	with temporal context, so many networks used for natural language
	processing can also be used for reference (Transformers).
Huang:  non-targeted sound events included in
	audio samples. These superimposed interference noises make discerning and localizing movable sounds events becomes more challenging.
	Mel-spectograms are a  feature-based solution requires separate human efforts and
	is constrained by different parameter settings, e.g. window size,
	hop size, or filter bank type, which in turn influences the design
	of model architectures and is considered a sub-optimal solution
   audio-based end-to-end approaches

	(On the idea of training on the raw audio): input size of raw audio is much larger
	than human-extracted features, which is more difficult to generalize
	
	SED and DOA may have some common features that are
	better preserved in raw audio form. Thus, we follow the design
	of the baseline system [13] to jointly train the SED and DOA in a
	shared network and adopt the activity-coupled Cartesian DOA vector (ACCDOA) representation [22] as a single target to predict the
	SED and DOA simultaneously
	
Lee:In a practical situation, sound of an event is transmitted to microphones
	from the corresponding source at a specific direction. From this 
	fact, it is reasonable to combine detection and localization by estimating the temporal and spatial location of the event. Therefore, it 
	is worthwhile to study SED and DoA together	
	
	The joint learning is adopted to avoid the data association
	problem between the predicted sound events and the estimated 
	DoAs with separated SED and DoA estimation

	The SED is performed with a multi-label classification task and 
	estimates which event exists for each frame while the DoA estimate is obtained in three-dimensional coordinates with a multioutput regression task.
	
	The log-mel spectrogram extracted from input audio data is used as input features for SED, and intensity vectors 
	are additionally extracted as input features for DoA estimation
	
Parrish::
		 Historically, sound event detection and localization have been
		accomplished using signal processing and tracking algorithms such
		as the TRAMP algorithm that utilizes a voice-activity detector an
		
		end-to-end trained
		networks have been the top performing approaches to previous
		DCASE SELD tasks including an ensemble of CRNNs in 2019 [4]
		and an ensemble of multiple deep neural networks in 2020 
		
		F-Score on
		classifications localized to within 20◦
		of the true DOA. LECD computes the localization error in degrees between truth and estimates
		of the same class, and LRCD computes class-based recall.
		
Politis: The most important difference of the new dataset is the
		introduction of directional interferers, meaning sound events that
		are localized in space but do not belong to the target classes to be
		detected and are not annotated
		The spatiotemporal characterization
		of the scene produced by SELD makes it suitable for a range of applications such as robot audition and machine listening in general
		, acoustic monitoring, smart home environments,
		improved human-machine interaction [7], speech recognition [8],
		and sonic information visualization [9], among others
		
		participants experimenting with homogeneous joint loss functions, self-attention layers,
		advanced spatial augmentation strategies, combinations of
		model-based localization with learning-based SED, databased fusion of individual SSL and SED systems, and
		event- or track-based prediction modeling, instead of class-based
		prediction. The latter development specifically tried to
		address the case of same-class events occurring simultaneously
Shimada:  The model is trained to
		minimize the Euclidean distance between the estimated and target
		coordinates in the ACCDOA representation. We solve the multioutput regression with a mean square error (MSE) loss
Nguyen:
		This frequency correspondence, however, has
	no counterpart for GCC-PHAT features since the time lags dimension of the GCC-PHAT features does not have a linear one-to-one
	mapping with the mel bands of the log-mel spectrograms. As a result, all of the DOA information is aggregated at the frame level,
	making it difficult to assign correct DOAs to different sound events.
	In addition, GCC-PHAT features are noisy when there are multiple
	sound sources.
	
Zhang:  In the SELD
		task of DCASE 2021, the baseline system (called SELDnet) is no
		longer a multitask learning system since it eliminates event classification output branch by setting training target as activity-coupled
		Cartesian DOA (ACCDOA) representation 
Chapter 3:
Bai: (in resnets) The residual block introduced can make the deep network have a better convergence effect.

	It can be seen that data enhancement can only improve the performance
	of the model to a certain extent
	
	Some augmentation techniqes worsened the baseline, but optimized the resnet!!->try da on resnet
	
Huang: transformer can be used to extract long sequence dependencies, and
	convolution is suitable for refining local features.

	Data augmentation is an effective way to improve the model generalization and prevent overfitting problem. 
	
Ko: To prevent shrinkage in time-domain, strides (in convolution layer) were not set in time axis
	and only frequency dimension was allowed to set strides to a value,
	greater than one.
	i think he performs conv on the last dimension (16) and not the first like me-> he has channels_last
	
	(For ensemble) methods can be divided into two groups; intra-model level (bDNN, SWA)
	and inter-model level (simple average predictions were used. Each model outputs a
	prediction per an audio sample and these outputs were averaged to
	form the final prediction.) ensemble methods
	
	Used two models to make ensembles The two model structures share
	the same model configuration and the only difference between them
	is whether pooling size in frequency axis in the first convolutional
	layer is one or two.
	
	So in his, input is (300, 64, 7) and after convolution (60, Dfreq, 32)
	So what is Dfreq? it depends on whether or not the pooling of the 1st stage has 1 or 2 in the 
	dimensions, which depends of his two models he is using. If pooling is 1, it is 64 if it is 2 it is 32 (i think)
	so he has channels_last and the pooling happens on the first two dimensions (time and freq, poolsize=[5,1 or 2])
	and conv happens on the channel dimension (7 to 32)->again just speculating
	So i do the same calculations on the same channels, so it all ok
	
	He created different models by changing the hyperparameters

Lee: (In joint learning) some features will be trained for SED (or DoA), and then it will 
	be difficult to learn for DoA (or SED). In this report, unlike the 
	baseline model, we obtain each feature sequence for SED or DoA
	using CNN layers in parallel. However, features for the two models should be associated because the two tasks are directly related.
	Therefore, we use the parameter-sharing method in [3] that exchanges intermediate features in the CNN layers for the SED and 
	DoA	->also for further improvement, use cross-modal attention (CMA) in transformer 
	decoder layers to learn the fused information.
	
	The embedding process consists of CNN blocks. Although we 
	have also tried embeddings with the LSTM or transformer encoder, nothing performed better than the CNN
	
	the CMA module in the DoA stream (CMA-1)
	takes the DoA embedding sequence as a query vector and the SED 
	embedding sequence as a key and value vector for the multi-head 
	scale dot production attention.
	
	Serial prediciont
	
Navajo Alcajar: squeeze-excitation technique with residual (like huang) in the convolutional part of the network

				use of rate scheduler: if the performance of the system is not improved
				within 15 epochs, the learning rate decreases by a factor of 0.5.
				
Park: Recently, Vision Transformer (ViT) [7, 8] using only pure
		Transformers for image understanding has been introduced. The
		outstanding performance of ViT is starting to ask whether CNNs
		are still essential in many applications. Since then, research on
		Transformers replacing CNNs has become a trend in various fields.
		The Audio Spectrogram Transformer (AST) [9] and Keyword Transformer [10] have been introduced as the first attempts to replace
		CNNs with Transformers in audio understanding. 
		
		transfer learning by averaging the weights from ViT
		
		test data augmentation
		
		dynamic threshold
		
		The input time window for our system is 2 seconds. We slide this
		window with a small hop size to create many overlapped results and
		average these results during the inference
		
		rate scheduler: After 40 epochs, the learning rate decreases by a factor
		of 0.8 per epoch. 
		
		We apply Stochastic Weight Averaging (SWA)
		[18] to the last 10 epochs for better results
		
Parrish: We implement a network with successive blocks of multiscale filters to discriminate and extract overlapping classes with different spectral characteristics. We also implement an output format
		and permutation invariant training loss that enable the network to
		detect, classify, and localize multiple instances of the same class
		simultaneously
		
		The network takes as input log magnitude spectral representations of the acoustic time-series, along with
		corresponding intensity vector representations, and outputs class
		confidence and DOA estimates at 100 ms intervals
		
		Network detects up to 2 instances of the same class
		
		Due to the high degree of polyphony
		(multiple sound sources transmitting jointly) in the data, we design
		the network to operate at multiple time/frequency scales throughout
		and to carry this multi-scale operation through the network. Our intuition in doing this is that to detect, classify, and localize multiple
		sound sources simultaneously, the model must recognize spectral
		content at different scales for different classes, and then filter the
		corresponding frequencies in the intensity vector representation to
		estimate DOA.
		
		everal successive layers of neural architecture search (NAS) [6] and pyramid scene
		parsing blocks [7] before being processed by a multi-headed self-attention layer (MHSA) [8] that outputs to three parallel dense
		layers to predict output detections and DOA coordinates for each
		class in cartesian coordinates->uses 3 foa for 3 simultaneous predictions like Lee
		
		To facilitate learning from signals with potentially varying spectral
		characteristics we use NASnet-like [6] convolution modules, termed
		NAS blocks in Figure 1, along with convolution modules inspired
		by PSPNet [7], termed pyramid scene parsing blocks in Figure 1.
		We anticipate that these multi-scale modules will enable the CNN
		to extract features at varying scales in the data, allowing for potentially better generalization to acoustic targets with varying spectral
		characteristics and bandwidths.
		
		The output tensors have dimension 40x12x2, representing 40 time samples (for 4 seconds of data
		with 100 ms resolution), twelve classes, and up to two instances
		of the same class simultaneously. 
		
		we use the same processing parameters
		and intensity vector representation as Cao, et al. [11]. This includes
		segmenting the data into 4-second segments and computing a logmel spectral and intensity representation with 256 bins and 160 time
		scans
		
Shimada:  model ensembles by averaging outputs of several systems trained with different conditions such as input features, training folds, 
		and model architectures. We also use the event independent network v2 (EINV2)-based system to increase the diversity of the model ensembles
		
		Some of the models
	use PCEN [12], cosIPDs, and sinIPDs [13] as input features, instead
	of the amplitude spectrograms and IPDs
	
	Use spatial augmentation method [10].
	It rotates the training data represented in the FOA format and enables us to increase the numbers of DOA labels without losing the
	physical relationships between steering vectors and observations.
	
	we consider three variants of D3Net architecture
	
	replace the GRU block
	with a time-frequency RNN (TFRNN) block, which is inspired by a
	dual-path recurrent neural network (DPRNN) block
	Each RNN block is composed of bidirectional long short-term
	memory (LSTM), fully connected layers, and layer normalization.
	The intra- and inter-chunk RNN blocks are alternately stacked. As
	shown in Fig. 3 (b), TFRNN with four RNN blocks is applied
	
	During the inference, we split the 60-second inputs into shorter segments that overlap. Subsequently, each segment is processed, and
		the results of overlapped frames are averaged.
		
		The track-wise format assumes that the output of the model has several tracks, each with
	at most one predicted event with a corresponding DOA. Different
	tracks can detect events of the same class with different DOA, which
	enables us to detect overlaps of the same class
	
	A model ensemble is performed by averaging outputs of several
	models trained with different conditions such as input features,
	training folds, and model architectures.

	There were no significant difference between the simple average
	and the weighted average.
	
Nguyen: The SELD encoder is a convolutional neural network (CNN) that learns spatial and spectrotemporal representation f the feaatures
		The SELD decoder consists of a temporal network (LSTM, GRU or MHSA) and fully connected (FC) layers to decode SELD output sequences
		
		ResNet22 without the last global pooling and fully connected layer.The first convolution layer of the
		ResNet22 is a double convolution with kernel size (3, 3) and stride
		1. The downsampling factor of ResNet22 is 16 on both time and
		frequency dimensions. The output embedding of the ResNet22 encoder is average-pooled along the frequency dimension before fed
		into the SELD decoder.
		
		Use of SEDXYZ instead of ACCDOA: 4 FC layers to produce the SELD output, first produces the posterior probabilities
		of the sound classes. The remaining three FC layers produce Cartesian coordinates of the DOA on a unit sphere
		
		The disadvantage of the class-wise output
		format is that they cannot resolve overlapping same-class events,
		 test-time augmentation (TTA) during inference.
		We adapted the 16-pattern spatial augmentation technique from [22]
		for TTA
		
		SED ensemble OF cnn MODELS was then combined with the 4
		SELD ensembles to form 4 submission systems 

		Use of all 6 folds for training
		
		tHE RESNET SYSTEM WITH GRU AND 128 MEL BANDS PERFORMED BETTER THAN THE BASELINE WITH 64 MEL BANDS
		
		 Salsa feature extraction was th eprimary difference in performance tho
		 
Sun: he square convolution shares the weight in each T-F bin
	of the fixed area in feature map, that is limited. In order to address
	this problem, we propose a AHConv mechanism instead of square
	convolution to obtain time and frequency dependencies
	
	adopt a multi-scale
	feature extracting strategy, in which the strategy was designed to
	capture the longer temporal context information than the conventional convolutions. Moreover, the parallel structure is applied in
	Adaptive attention block
	
	Among the various CNN architectures, if the network contains
	shorter connections between layers close to the input and those
	close to the output, it can be substantially deeper, more accurate,
	and efficient to train, to further improve the information flow between layers [16]. In this work, we combine the advantages of
	DenseNet (same as shimada, d3net) and dilated convolution, and propose a extractor called
	multi-scale feature extractor->has a multiple dilation factor within a single layer
	
	
Yalta:
	Mel filterbank features is subsample by using two CNN/Residual
	layers with max-pooling layers. The CNN layers use a stride size
	of 1, a kernel size of 3, and a padding size of 1. The residual layers
	comprise two CNN layers with kernel size three and one CNN layer
	as identity shortcut
	
	The audio tracks are split into subsegments with an overlap during
	inference. Then, the results from the overlapped frames are averaged. 
	Finally, we conduct post-processing of minimum thresholding for each sound event using a hyperparameter search
	
	AdamW solver with an initial learning rate of 10−3
		and a linear learning scheduler with a final learning rate of 10−7
		
		4 transformer models->>check out -> s 2 residual blocks with 64
		channels. After the residual block a max-pooling layers is stacked.
		The first max-pooling has a stride of (5, 4) size and the second a
		size of (1, 4). After the second max-pooling, a linear layer reduce to
		128-dims. For this model, we employed a fixed positional encoding.
		The model has three self-attention blocks with 4 attention heads and
		1024 units for the position-wise FF

		the use of Residual connections in a SELDnet model improves localization recall. However, the other metrics do not show a relevant improvement.
		 Transformer reaches
		a higher location recall when using a Tmin close to zero. However,
		the performance of the models on the other metrics degrades.
		
Zhang:  we extract 64 log-Mel
		magnitude spectrogram for each audio file using short-term Fourier
		transform (STFT) with the configuration of 40 ms frame length and
		20 ms hop length.
		use both of IV and GCCPHAT channels
		
		 fed into the convolutional neural networks (CNN) blocks firstly to extract high-level features
		 
		 The output activation from CNN is further reshaped to a 60
		frame sequence of length 512 feature vectors and fed to Conformer
		block which is used to learn both the position-wise local features
		and the temporal context information
		
		ensembles are class-based weighted mean of
		the output predicted by different models(like Nguyen)
		
		CNN-cONFORMER MODEL
		also tried to substitute the CNN layer to
		other high-level feature representation modules, including SEResNet, ResNet and Xception, with no improvementover the CNN
		
		we train the network for 400 epochs with a minibatch size
		of 256 and initialize the learning rate as 0.001, which will be decreased by 31.6% if the optimization criterion cannot reduce in 10
		consecutive epochs.
		
		train the weight parameters of the ensemble model,
		the predictions of the training set were used by adopting the cross-validation setup
=============================== WHAT TO TRY ===============================
APPROACHES: Bai uses Resnet34 with different SED and DOA branch->try with different SED and DOA branch
Huang uses Squeeze-Excitation block and modified Residual block
Ko makes use of a lot of post processing techniques and ensembles AND ALSO USES DIFFERENT DOA AND SED BRANCH
Lee different branches with parameter sharing and serial prediciton->use 3 fc output layers to have up to 3 predictions
Naranjo Alcajar uses squeeze excitation technique with p=1
Park uses separate sed and doa branches. Also test data augmentation like Nguyen and dynamic threshold like Ko->maybe also look into transfer learning
Parrish jointly learns teh seld and has 3 fc like Lee
nGUYEN DOES SOME SHIT ON THE PREPROCESSING and also uses SEDXYZ (4 fc like Lee and Parrish). Also TTA 
Yalta used post processing by subsegmenting the output and averaging the overlapped segments

search music separation

neural architecture search and transfer learning
